Hi, and welcome back.
In this video we're looking at argument unpacking.
We've looked at double destructuring,
and this is sort of fairly related.
It's not the same thing by any means,
but it's sort of a short-hand to do things.
Given the code we've got here on the left,
which should look familiar,
it's the one we wrote a couple of videos ago.
We've got our accounts,
and we've got a function to add balance to an account.
Let's call the add_balance function many times.
Imagine we've got a list of transactions
like this list I've just pasted here.
So it's a list of doubles.
This one says the amount of change that happened,
and this one to which account it happened.
So let's go over these transactions.
I'm just gonna press enter a few times here
to give you more space.
And let's say we wanted to add
all of these transactions to our accounts.
What could we do?
For t in transactions,
add_balancet[0],sorryforgot the bracket,
t[0], t[1] and that's it.
So as you can see what this'll do is,
of course for every transaction which is a tuple,
it'll call t[0] and t[1] the amount and the name and pass it
to add_balance which it takes in the amount and the name
of the account it is going to update.
Now we're doing something very, very specific here
which is a really popular thing to do, in fact.
And that is that we're getting an iterable,
like this tuple here, and each element of the tuple,
in this case, two elements,
we're passing them as arguments to a function.
Notice how we're passing the first argument,
the argument with index zero,
to our function t[0] as the first argument.
So the first argument of the function
is also the first element of the tuple.
The second argument of the function
is also the second element of the tuple and so forth.
So this is a very popular thing to do,
each element of the tuple going
to the argument of a function.
So Python gives us a shorthand.
Instead of this, we can do *t
and what that does is that unpacks
the iterable into arguments.
So *t we pass each element of t
as a separate argument to the function.
So t[0], the amount, we'll go to the amount,
t[1], checking, we'll go to the name.
If we have more elements here,
they would go to the subsequent parameters as well.
Of course we only have two elements, two parameters.
So this is called argument unpacking,
and this asterisk here is the unpacking operator
that we can use to unpack any iterable into arguments.
Okay, pretty straightforward.
Now I also wanted to tell you about named arguments.
Did you know that in any function call in Python,
you can specify the name of the parameter
that you're fulfilling with a given value.
So you can say something like amount= t[0], name=t[1].
This is totally valid Python,
so you define the name of the argument.
I'm sorry the name of the parameter
and the argument value.
And you put an equal sign in the middle.
That just makes the function call a bit more readable,
so that when you're looking at the function
you know okay, t[0] is the amount, t[1] is the name.
It becomes a bit less useful if you have
a statement above it that says something like
amount = t[0] and let's use proper amount name = t.
This becomes a bit less useful,
then you have amount=amount, name=name.
So this is not so useful,
so you wouldn't do this in that case.
But when you have a variable that maybe
doesn't describe what things are so well,
like this t thing here.
This can be pretty useful 'cause now you know that
t[0] whatever that is, is going to the amount property.
t[1] whatever that is, is going to the name property.
So t[1] must be a string, t[0] must be a float you assume.
A benefit of these named arguments is that
you can put them in any order you want.
So, you can put this one here and this one in front,
and this one behind, doesn't matter, it's up to you.
So that's named arguments in a nutshell.
That's really all they are.
You can put the name of the parameter
you're fulfilling in front of the value,
and then you can jumble them if you want.
So, in section nine a while ago,
so you're gonna add more enters here.
In section nine we looked at this piece of code here
that I'm about to paste in.
We looked at this piece of code.
And if you remember it,
we defined a class user with init method,
username and password were two arguments of the init,
and then we set the properties username and password
of the object.
And then we have a class method from dict
that took in a dictionary and created
a new object of type user from,
two keys, username and password in that dictionary.
An interesting thing here that I noticed
pretty quickly when looking at this data,
is that we've got username and password
keys in our dictionary,
and we have username and password argument names,
so they match.
The data that we have which has a username and password key,
matches the argument names username and password.
So, this is gonna be interesting in a moment.
Then we have a list of users.
We can imagine they're coming from a database or something.
We've got username is rolf, password is 123,
username tecladoisawesome, password is youaretoo
and these are two dictionaries here.
And then at the end we've mapped over the
User.from_dict method for the users list,
so that calls it from dict method for each user,
for each dictionary here,
passing the dictionary to the method,
and then we were able to create
a new user from each dictionary.
And we also of course had the option of saying
user_objects is [User.from_dict(u) for u in Users].
We have the option of doing this list comprehension
as well although at the time I suggested that
the list comprehension was a bit worse because we've got
to create this empty variable,
the function's already defined so it's pretty handy
to use that here.
We don't have to create alum defunction.
It's all good.
However now that we have argument unpacking,
and I'm about to introduce a new type of unpacking.
Now that we have argument unpacking, in fact
we don't need this method at all anymore.
And in fact we don't need this either.
Because what we're going to do now
is we're going to do this.
We're gonna do
and data, data['username'], data['password'].
Okay som I'm gonna build this up.
This is nothing new for you guys.
We are iterable over users.
We're calling each dictionary data so this dictionary
is data and then this dictionary becomes data.
And every time we do that, we're creating a new user
object passing to it data username and data password.
So rolf goes to username, 123 goes to password.
We have a new user where the properties
are username and password so we know that.
We can make this a bit worse and make it
username=data['username'], password=data['password'].
Again same thing only now we're using named arguments.
We're giving a name to the argument that we're passing in
and that has to match the perameter here.
So we're saying username is the data's username property,
password is the data's password key.
Whenever you see this username is something,
username password is something password at dictionary,
you know that you've got triplication here.
There's too many usernames in here.
There must be a better way and there is.
Instead of doing this,
you can do that.
Instead of doing this, you can do this.
Notice the double asterisk now, and what this does
is that this is a dictionary unpacking.
It unpacks a dictionary as named arguments
to a function.
So it does exactly this.
It says get the key of h dictionary.
In this case it's username and password.
And treat them as named arguments to the functions.
So say username is data['username'] and then
this is another key in dictionary, password.
So let's treat that as another named argument
equals data password.
So this double asterisk data does exactly
the same thing as this.
Why is that important?
It's important because dictionary may not be in order.
And remember these two can be jumbled up and that's fine.
So you can put the password in front if you want
and it will still go to the right place
because Python now match them to the name.
So that's important because when you the double asterisk
data the dictionary may not be in order,
and that's important here as well.
However let me say that as of Python 3.7,
dictionaries do keep their order
and when you pass this mapping into a function
it will keep the order of the dictionary as well.
And it's not really a problem anymore but nonetheless
you can still do this, and this is a good thing to do.
If you were getting these things from a database,
for example, you can see how being able to pass
the entire piece of data to a function may be useful.
That's how you do named argument unpacking
or dictionary unpacking.
Of course if your users were in a slightly different format,
if your users were in the format, I'm just gonna copy
from my notes just to save you the pain.
If your users were in this format, tuple format
where username is the first element and password
is second element, you know what you can do instead.
I can just do this.
So for each tuple here, you're going to pass them as
normal arguments, called positional arguments
and so same thing here.
You can pass them as positional arguments to the
user function so in this case rolf would be the first
parameter, 123 would be the second parameter.
And now you don't know whether it's username and password,
you just know it's number one and number two.
And this is something you can do as well.
Of course only if the properties are in this type
of iterable and not this type of mapping.
Okay that's it for this video.
I wanted to show you about this unpacking
and also about named arguments because it's a useful
thing to know, sometimes it make your functions
a bit easier to understand.
So that's it for this video.
I'll see you on the next one.